HSEARCH-3517 Optimize the computation of total hit count (#2339)
hibernate/hibernate-search: documentation/src/main/asciidoc/reference/search-dsl-query.asciidoc

----
====

[[search-dsl-query-fetching-results-total]]
=== Fetch result total

A `SearchResultTotal` contains the count of the **total** hits have been matched the query, either belonging
to the current page or not. For pagination see <<search-dsl-query-fetching-results-pagination>>.
The count can be either exact or a lower bound of it.

The total hit count is always exact, except the cases:

* We got a limiting fetch timeout.
See <<limit_the_number_of_results_when_the_time_limit_is_reached>>.
* We're using the Elasticsearch backend and the total hit count is higher than `10.000`.
See https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/search-your-data.html#track-total-hits[Elasticsearch documentation].

> * If we have defined a `totalHitsThreshold` for the current query. See <<search-dsl-query-total-hits-threshold>>.

Reviewer: Actually, is the part about Elasticsearch even true? I thought we set `track_total_hits` to `true` by default, precisely to avoid this problem?

> * If we have defined a `totalHitsThreshold` for the current query. See <<search-dsl-query-total-hits-threshold>>.

Author: Right. Reading better the ES documentation it seems that passing `true` to `track_total_hits`, as we do, the hit count is always exact.

> When set to true the search response will always track the number of hits that match the query accurately

I'm removing the ES item from the list

For these cases, the count may not be `exact` but a lower bound.

.Working with the result total
====
[source, JAVA, indent=0, subs="+callouts"]
----
include::{sourcedir}/org/hibernate/search/documentation/search/query/QueryDslIT.java[tags=fetching-resultTotal]
----
<1> Extract the `SearchResultTotal` from the `SearchResult`.

> <2> Take the exact total hit count, this call will raise an exception if the hit count is not exact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Retrieve the exact total hit count. This call will raise an exception if the only available hit count is a lower-bound estimate.
```

> <3> Take the lower bound total hit count, it will return the exact hit count if the count is exact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Retrieve a lower-bound estimate of the total hit count. This will return the exact hit count if available.
```

<4> Test if the count is exact.
<5> Test if the count is a lower bound.
====

[[search-dsl-query-total-hits-threshold]]
=== Total hits threshold

To improve the speed of `fetch` it is possible to limit the total hit count precision up to a given number.
This may allow the backend to skip some collections of hits that are not part of the current fetch result.

.Define a total hits threshold
====
[source, JAVA, indent=0, subs="+callouts"]
----
include::{sourcedir}/org/hibernate/search/documentation/search/query/QueryDslIT.java[tags=fetching-totalHitsThreshold]
----
<1> Define a `totalHitsThreshold` for the current query
<2> Extract the `SearchResultTotal` from the `SearchResult`.

> <3> Take the lower bound total hit count, it will return the exact hit count if the count is exact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Retrieve a lower-bound estimate of the total hit count. This will return the exact hit count if available.
```

<4> Test if the count is exact.

> <5> Test if the count is a lower bound.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> Test if the count is a lower-bound estimate.
```

====

> 
> As we said, the count here may not be `exact` but a lower bound.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

====

[[search-dsl-query-fetching-results-total]]
=== Fetching the total (hit count, ...)

A `SearchResultTotal` contains the count of the **total** hits have been matched the query, either belonging
to the current page or not. For pagination see <<search-dsl-query-fetching-results-pagination>>.

The total hit count is exact by default, but can be replaced with a lower-bound estimate in the following cases:

* The `totalHitCountThreshold` option is enabled. See <<search-dsl-query-total-hits-threshold>>.
* The `truncateAfter` option is enabled and a timeout occurs.

.Working with the result total
====
[source, JAVA, indent=0, subs="+callouts"]
----
include::{sourcedir}/org/hibernate/search/documentation/search/query/QueryDslIT.java[tags=fetching-resultTotal]
----
<1> Extract the `SearchResultTotal` from the `SearchResult`.
<2> Retrieve the exact total hit count. This call will raise an exception if the only available hit count is a lower-bound estimate.
<3> Retrieve a lower-bound estimate of the total hit count. This will return the exact hit count if available.
<4> Test if the count is exact.
<5> Test if the count is a lower bound.
====

[[search-dsl-query-total-hits-threshold]]

> === `totalHitsThreshold(...)`: optimizing total hit count computation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== `totalHitCountThreshold(...)`: optimizing total hit count computation
```

When working with large result sets, counting the number of hits exactly can be very resource-consuming.

When sorting by score (the default) and retrieving the result through `fetch(...)`, it is possible to yield significant performance improvements by allowing Hibernate Search to return a lower-bound estimate of the total hit count, instead of the exact total hit count. In that case, the underlying engine (Lucene or Elasticsearch) will be able to skip large chunks of non-competitive hits, leading to fewer index scans and thus better performance.

> To enable this performance optimization, call `totalHitsThreshold(...)` when building the query, as shown in the example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable this performance optimization, call `totalHitCountThreshold(...)` when building the query, as shown in the example below.
```

[NOTE]
====
This optimization has no effect on calls to `fetchHits(...)` (which is already optimized by default) or to `fetchTotalHitCount()` (which always returns an exact hit count).
====

> .Defining a total hits threshold

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Defining a total hit count threshold
```
